print(1) -- makes printing in AT easy-peasy
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`print` [<options>...] [<file>...]

## DESCRIPTION

**Print** makes printing in AT much easier by removing the multitude of hoops
that are in your way just to print a file.

With no extra options `print` prints the <file>s to the *best* black and white
printer for your location. It determines this from which machine you are working
on, the number of print jobs currently in the printers and whether or not the
printers are actually working.

## FILES

The `print` command will accept any file that `lpr` accepts on DICE.

## OPTIONS

These options control whether output is written to file(s), standard output, or
directly to a man pager.

  * `-P`, `--printer`=<printer>:
    Force `print` to use a certain printer. It will use this printer unless the
    printer is not available. If the printer is not available then the print will
    fail.
    
  * `-r`, `--reprint`:
    Reprints the last file to the same printer. This command is useful if you want
    to send a test run of a print job. If the job turns out okay then you can send
    this command with some more copies.
  
  * `-a`, `--abort`:
    Cancels the last print job. If you want to do this then you're going to have
    to be very fast or there has to be a queue of print jobs. If not, then it will
    start printing before it can be cancelled. You might want to hit *Cancel* on
    the printer if you accidentally printed a book.

Printing options which control the actual output of the print job:

  * `-n`, `--number`=<copies>:
    How many times would you like your files to be printed? Put that after this
    argument. Simples.

  * `-c`, `--colour`:
    Choose the best colour printer for the job. May result in you having to walk
    up some stairs.

## EXAMPLES

Prints ~/StudentClass.java to the best printer:

    print ~/StudentClass.java

The -P (--printer) option forces the job to be printed to a certain printer:

    print -P at14 ~/StudentClass.java

The -c (--colour) option makes sure a colour printer is used:

    print -c ~/StudentClass.java

The -a (--abort) option cancels the last job you printed:

    print --abort

The -r (--reprint) option resends the last job you printed:

    print -r

The -n (--number) option prints that many copies of the file you request:

    print -n 15 ~/StudentClass.java

## BUGS

**Print** is written in Ruby and has no dependencies because it must run on
DICE which does not allow for external dependencies. This limits the fancy
features that we can implement.

The most obvious thing that is missing at the moment is different page layouts
such as *4-up*, *2-up* and *duplex*. These should be added soon.

## COPYRIGHT

Print is Copyright (C) 2009 Lolsoft <http://lolsoft.github.com/>

## SEE ALSO

cen(1), cascader(1), cascader-gui(1), att(1)
